Day 1 starts with task 4
	Notes->
		Injection flaws are very common in applications today. These flaws occur because user controlled input is interpreted as actual commands or parameters by the application. Injection attacks depend on what technologies are being used and how exactly the input is interpreted by these technologies. Some common examples include:

		    SQL Injection: This occurs when user controlled input is passed to SQL queries. As a result, an attacker can pass in SQL queries to manipulate the outcome of such queries. 
		    Command Injection: This occurs when user input is passed to system commands. As a result, an attacker is able to execute arbitrary system commands on application servers.


		If an attacker is able to successfully pass input that is interpreted correctly, they would be able to do the following:

		    Access, Modify and Delete information in a database when this input is passed into database queries. This would mean that an attacker can steal sensitive information such as personal details and credentials.
		    Execute Arbitrary system commands on a server that would allow an attacker to gain access to users’ systems. This would enable them to steal sensitive data and carry out more attacks against infrastructure linked to the server on which the command is executed.


		The main defence for preventing injection attacks is ensuring that user controlled input is not interpreted as queries or commands. There are different ways of doing this:

		    Using an allow list: when input is sent to the server, this input is compared to a list of safe input or characters. If the input is marked as safe, then it is processed. Otherwise, it is rejected and the application throws an error.
		    Stripping input: If the input contains dangerous characters, these characters are removed before they are processed.


		Dangerous characters or input is classified as any input that can change how the underlying data is processed. Instead of manually constructing allow lists or even just stripping input, there are various libraries that perform these actions for you.

		Command Injection occurs when server-side code (like PHP) in a web application makes a system call on the hosting machine.  It is a web vulnerability that allows an attacker to take advantage of that made system call to execute operating system commands on the server.  Sometimes this won't always end in something malicious, like a whoami or just reading of files.  That isn't too bad.  But the thing about command injection is it opens up many options for the attacker.  The worst thing they could do would be to spawn a reverse shell to become the user that the web server is running as.  A simple ;nc -e /bin/bash is all that's needed and they own your server. some variants of netcat don't support the -e option. You can use a list of these reverse shells as an alternative. 

		Once the attacker has a foothold on the web server, they can start the usual enumeration of your systems and start looking for ways to pivot around.  Now that we know what command injection is, we'll start going into the different types and how to test for them.

For the first one the nmap gave us
PORT   STATE SERVICE
22/tcp open  ssh
80/tcp open  http

/evilshell.php
Answers->
1.drpepper.txt

2. 0

3. www-data

4. /usr/sbin/nologin

5. 18.04.4 

6. dr pepper


Linux injection 4.15.0-101-generic #102-Ubuntu SMP Mon May 11 10:07:26 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux



Found flag.txt
65fa0513383ee486f89450160f3aa4c4

DAY 2->

	Authentication and session management constitute core components of modern web applications. Authentication allows users to gain access to web applications by verifying their identities. The most common form of authentication is using a username and password mechanism. A user would enter these credentials, the server would verify them. If they are correct, the server would then provide the users’ browser with a session cookie. A session cookie is needed because web servers use HTTP(S) to communicate which is stateless. Attaching session cookies means that the server will know who is sending what data. The server can then keep track of users' actions. 

If an attacker is able to find flaws in an authentication mechanism, they would then successfully gain access to other users’ accounts. This would allow the attacker to access sensitive data (depending on the purpose of the application). Some common flaws in authentication mechanisms include:

    Brute force attacks: If a web application uses usernames and passwords, an attacker is able to launch brute force attacks that allow them to guess the username and passwords using multiple authentication attempts. 
    Use of weak credentials: web applications should set strong password policies. If applications allow users to set passwords such as ‘password1’ or common passwords, then an attacker is able to easily guess them and access user accounts. They can do this without brute forcing and without multiple attempts.
    Weak Session Cookies: Session cookies are how the server keeps track of users. If session cookies contain predictable values, an attacker can set their own session cookies and access users’ accounts. 

There can be various mitigation for broken authentication mechanisms depending on the exact flaw:

    To avoid password guessing attacks, ensure the application enforces a strong password policy. 
    To avoid brute force attacks, ensure that the application enforces an automatic lockout after a certain number of attempts. This would prevent an attacker from launching more brute force attacks.
    Implement Multi Factor Authentication - If a user has multiple methods of authentication, for example, using username and passwords and receiving a code on their mobile device, then it would be difficult for an attacker to get access to both credentials to get access to their account.



For this example, we'll be looking at a logic flaw within the authentication mechanism.

A lot of times what happens is that developers forgets to sanitize the input(username & password) given by the user in the code of their application, which can make them vulnerable to attacks like SQL injection. However, we are going to focus on a vulnerability that happens because of a developer's mistake but is very easy to exploit i.e re-registration of an existing user.

Let's understand this with the help of an example, say there is an existing user with the name admin and now we want to get access to their account so what we can do is try to re-register that username but with slight modification. We are going to enter " admin"(notice the space in the starting). Now when you enter that in the username field and enter other required information like email id or password and submit that data. It will actually register a new user but that user will have the same right as normal admin. That new user will also be able to see all the content presented under the user admin.

To see this in action go to http://10.10.129.240:8888 and try to register a user name darren, you'll see that user already exists so then try to register a user " darren" and you'll see that you are now logged in and will be able to see the content present only in Darren's account which in our case is the flag that you need to retrieve.




Registered with " darren" and then logged in with " darren" as well and found the flag was 
        
            fe86079416a21a3c99937fea8874b667
        
Was asked to do the same with arthur and found the flag to be

        
            d9ac0f7db4fda460ac3edeb75d75e16e
        
    


DAY 3->


When a webapp accidentally divulges sensitive data, we refer to it as "Sensitive Data Exposure". This is often data directly linked to customers (e.g. names, dates-of-birth, financial information, etc), but could also be more technical information, such as usernames and passwords. At more complex levels this often involves techniques such as a "Man in The Middle Attack", whereby the attacker would force user connections through a device which they control, then take advantage of weak encryption on any transmitted data to gain access to the intercepted information (if the data is even encrypted in the first place...). Of course, many examples are much simpler, and vulnerabilities can be found in web apps which can be exploited without any advanced networking knowledge. Indeed, in some cases, the sensitive data can be found directly on the webserver itself...

The web application in this box contains one such vulnerability. Deploy the machine, then read through the supporting material in the following tasks as the box boots up.


The most common way to store a large amount of data in a format that is easily accessible from many locations at once is in a database. This is obviously perfect for something like a web application, as there may be many users interacting with the website at any one time. Database engines usually follow the Structured Query Language (SQL) syntax; however, alternative formats (such as NoSQL) are rising in popularity.

In a production environment it is common to see databases set up on dedicated servers, running a database service such as MySQL or MariaDB; however, databases can also be stored as files. These databases are referred to as "flat-file" databases, as they are stored as a single file on the computer. This is much easier than setting up a full database server, and so could potentially be seen in smaller web applications. Accessing a database server is outwith the scope of today's task, so let's focus instead on flat-file databases.

As mentioned previously, flat-file databases are stored as a file on the disk of a computer. Usually this would not be a problem for a webapp, but what happens if the database is stored underneath the root directory of the website (i.e. one of the files that a user connecting to the website is able to access)? Well, we can download it and query it on our own machine, with full access to everything in the database. Sensitive Data Exposure indeed!

That is a big hint for the challenge, so let's briefly cover some of the syntax we would use to query a flat-file database.

The most common (and simplest) format of flat-file database is an sqlite database. These can be interacted with in most programming languages, and have a dedicated client for querying them on the command line. This client is called "sqlite3", and is installed by default on Kali.

Let's suppose we have successfully managed to download a database:

We can see that there is an SQlite database in the current folder.

To access it we use: sqlite3 <database-name>:

From here we can see the tables in the database by using the .tables command:

At this point we can dump all of the data from the table, but we won't necessarily know what each column means unless we look at the table information. First let's use PRAGMA table_info(customers); to see the table information, then we'll use SELECT * FROM customers; to dump the information from the table:

We can see from the table information that there are four columns: custID, custName, creditCard and password. You may notice that this matches up with the results. Take the first row:

0|Joy Paulson|4916 9012 2231 7905|5f4dcc3b5aa765d61d8327deb882cf99
 

We have the custID (0), the custName (Joy Paulson), the creditCard (4916 9012 2231 7905) and a password hash (5f4dcc3b5aa765d61d8327deb882cf99).

In the next task we'll look at cracking this hash.



In the previous task we saw how to query an SQLite database for sensitive data. We found a collection of password hashes, one for each user. In this task we will briefly cover how to crack these.

When it comes to hash cracking, Kali comes pre-installed with various tools -- if you know how to use these then feel free to do so; however, they are outwith the scope of this material.

Instead we will be using the online tool: Crackstation. This website is extremely good at cracking weak password hashes. For more complicated hashes we would need more sophisticated tools; however, all of the crackable password hashes used in today's challenge are weak MD5 hashes, which Crackstation should handle very nicely indeed.






/.htaccess (Status: 403)
/.hta (Status: 403)
/api (Status: 301)
/.htpasswd (Status: 403)
/assets (Status: 301)
/console (Status: 301)
/favicon.ico (Status: 200)
/index.php (Status: 200)
/login (Status: 301)
/server-status (Status: 403)



/assets
then found webapp.db
then used sqlite3 on it and got 


NSERT INTO users VALUES('4413096d9c933359b898b6202288a650','admin','6eea9b7ef19179a06954edd0f6c05ceb',1);
INSERT INTO users VALUES('23023b67a32488588db1e28579ced7ec','Bob','ad0234829205b9033196ba818f7a872b',1);
INSERT INTO users VALUES('4e8423b514eef575394ff78caed3254d','Alice','268b38ca7b84f44fa0a6cdc86e6301e0',0);



cracked the hash of the admin and got qwertyuiop as the password
logged in as admin:qwertyyuiop
the flag is THM{Yzc2YjdkMjE5N2VjMzNhOTE3NjdiMjdl}


DAY 4->
An XML External Entity (XXE) attack is a vulnerability that abuses features of XML parsers/data. It often allows an attacker to interact with any backend or external systems that the application itself can access and can allow the attacker to read the file on that system. They can also cause Denial of Service (DoS) attack or could use XXE to perform Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) inducing the web application to make requests to other applications. XXE may even enable port scanning and lead to remote code execution.

There are two types of XXE attacks: in-band and out-of-band (OOB-XXE).
1) An in-band XXE attack is the one in which the attacker can receive an immediate response to the XXE payload.

2) out-of-band XXE attacks (also called blind XXE), there is no immediate response from the web application and attacker has to reflect the output of their XXE payload to some other file or their own server.

This challenge is from our subscriber only material - happy hacking!


Before we move on to learn about XXE exploitation we'll have to understand XML properly.

What is XML?

XML (eXtensible Markup Language) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is a markup language used for storing and transporting data. 

Why we use XML?

1. XML is platform-independent and programming language independent, thus it can be used on any system and supports the technology change when that happens.

2. The data stored and transported using XML can be changed at any point in time without affecting the data presentation.

3. XML allows validation using DTD and Schema. This validation ensures that the XML document is free from any syntax error.

4. XML simplifies data sharing between various systems because of its platform-independent nature. XML data doesn’t require any conversion when transferred between different systems.

Syntax

Every XML document mostly starts with what is known as XML Prolog.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>


Above the line is called XML prolog and it specifies the XML version and the encoding used in the XML document. This line is not compulsory to use but it is considered a `good practice` to put that line in all your XML documents.

Every XML document must contain a `ROOT` element. For example:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mail>
   <to>falcon</to>
   <from>feast</from>
   <subject>About XXE</subject>
   <text>Teach about XXE</text>
</mail>


In the above example the <mail> is the ROOT element of that document and <to>, <from>, <subject>, <text> are the children elements. If the XML document doesn't have any root element then it would be consideredwrong or invalid XML doc.

Another thing to remember is that XML is a case sensitive language. If a tag starts like <to> then it has to end by </to> and not by something like </To>(notice the capitalization of T)

Like HTML we can use attributes in XML too. The syntax for having attributes is also very similar to HTML. For example:
<text category = "message">You need to learn about XXE</text>

In the above example category is the attribute name and message is the attribute value.

Day 5-->

	Theory :

	Websites have pages that are protected from regular visitors, for example only the site's admin user should be able to access a page to manage other users. If a website visitor is able to access the protected page/pages that they are not authorised to view, the access controls are broken.

	A regular visitor being able to access protected pages, can lead to the following:

	    Being able to view sensitive information
	    Accessing unauthorized functionality

	OWASP have a listed a few attack scenarios demonstrating access control weaknesses:

	Scenario #1: The application uses unverified data in a SQL call that is accessing account information:
	pstmt.setString(1, request.getParameter("acct"));
	ResultSet results = pstmt.executeQuery( );

	An attacker simply modifies the ‘acct’ parameter in the browser to send whatever account number they want. If not properly verified, the attacker can access any user’s account.
	http://example.com/app/accountInfo?acct=notmyacct

	Scenario #2: An attacker simply force browses to target URLs. Admin rights are required for access to the admin page.
	http://example.com/app/getappInfo
	http://example.com/app/admin_getappInfo

	If an unauthenticated user can access either page, it’s a flaw. If a non-admin can access the admin page, this is a flaw (reference to scenarios).

	To put simply, broken access control allows attackers to bypass authorization which can allow them to view sensitive data or perform tasks as if they were a privileged user.

----------->

	IDOR, or Insecure Direct Object Reference, is the act of exploiting a misconfiguration in the way user input is handled, to access resources you wouldn't ordinarily be able to access. IDOR is a type of access control vulnerability.

	For example, let's say we're logging into our bank account, and after correctly authenticating ourselves, we get taken to a URL like this https://example.com/bank?account_number=1234. On that page we can see all our important bank details, and a user would do whatever they needed to do and move along their way thinking nothing is wrong.

	There is however a potentially huge problem here, a hacker may be able to change the account_number parameter to something else like 1235, and if the site is incorrectly configured, then he would have access to someone else's bank information.


we needed to find the flag and the flag was at 0 and we found flag{fivefourthree} 

Day 6->


Security Misconfiguration

Security Misconfigurations are distinct from the other Top 10 vulnerabilities, because they occur when security could have been configured properly but was not.

Security misconfigurations include:

    Poorly configured permissions on cloud services, like S3 buckets
    Having unnecessary features enabled, like services, pages, accounts or privileges
    Default accounts with unchanged passwords
    Error messages that are overly detailed and allow an attacker to find out more about the system
    Not using HTTP security headers, or revealing too much detail in the Server: HTTP header

This vulnerability can often lead to more vulnerabilities, such as default credentials giving you access to sensitive data, XXE or command injection on admin pages.

For more info, I recommend having a look at the OWASP top 10 entry for Security Misconfiguration
Default Passwords

Specifically, this VM focusses on default passwords. These are a specific example of a security misconfiguration. You could, and should, change any default passwords but people often don't.

It's particularly common in embedded and Internet of Things devices, and much of the time the owners don't change these passwords.

It's easy to imagine the risk of default credentials from an attacker's point of view. Being able to gain access to admin dashboards, services designed for system administrators or manufacturers, or even network infrastructure could be incredibly useful in attacking a business. From data exposure to easy RCE, the effects of default credentials can be severe.

In October 2016, Dyn (a DNS provider) was taken offline by one of the most memorable DDoS attacks of the past 10 years. The flood of traffic came mostly from Internet of Things and networking devices like routers and modems, infected by the Mirai malware.

How did the malware take over the systems? Default passwords. The malware had a list of 63 username/password pairs, and attempted to log in to exposed telnet services.

The DDoS attack was notable because it took many large websites and services offline. Amazon, Twitter, Netflix, GitHub, Xbox Live, PlayStation Network, and many more services went offline for several hours in 3 waves of DDoS attacks on Dyn.
Practical example

This VM showcases a Security Misconfiguration, as part of the OWASP Top 10 Vulnerabilities list.

Deploy the VM, and hack in by exploiting the Security Misconfiguration!

found te default creds pensive:PensiveNotes
then find the flag to be thm{4b9513968fd564a87b28aa1f9d672e17}